# Google Data Analytics Course Case Study (Bellabeat)
## Introduction
In the last course of the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate course, students are given the opportunity to complete a case study.  The aim of this case study is to provide students the ability to utilize the skills learned in the course and hopefully, through this case study, can kick start a Data Analysis career.

This case study focuses on applying the data analysis process: **ask, prepare, process, analyze, share,** and **act**. I am tasked to perform an analysis for a company called, Bellabeat.

### Scenario
I am a junior data analyst working on the marketing analyst team at Bellabeat, a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. Bellabeat is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Urška Sršen, cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat, believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. I've been asked to focus on one of Bellabeat’s products and analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights I discover will then help guide marketing strategy for the company. I will present my analysis to the Bellabeat executive team along with my high-level recommendations for Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.

## Ask Phase
### Business Task

**Determine which Bellabeat product to market more based on the trend and usage of a fitness data tracking device, so that Bellabeat can market effectively and efficiently.**

### Stakeholders
- **Urška Sršen**: Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
- **Sando Mur**: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team
- **Bellabeat marketing analytics team**: A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing, and reporting data that helps guide Bellabeat’s marketing strategy

## Prepare Phase
### Background of the Data
The dataset used is [FitBit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit "https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit"), which is publicly available through Kaggle. The dataset was recorded from April 12, 2016 to May 12, 2016 and consists of thirty (30) Fitbit users who consented to submitting their personal tracker data, which includes minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.

### Data Credibility and Integrity
1. The dataset was generated by a survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk, in other words, a third party source. Therefore, we cannot determine the credibility of this data. 
2. We are unsure of the participants age, gender, and demographics, which is a limitation to this analysis. We know that Bellabeat specializes in health-related products for women, so this data may not be credible for the business task. Therefore, we can potentially encounter sampling bias in our analysis. 
3. The dataset is outdated since it was collected in 2016. Technology, especially smart watch technology, rapidly changes, so the data obtained may not be 100% accurate. For instance, the ability to track steps via smart watch is not 100% accurate, often with -10% tolerance.

### Data Organization and Description
The dataset downloaded is observed to be in Microsoft Excel CSV file format. There are 18 CSV files and a description of each one is shown in the table below.

Table Name | Description
| :--- | :---
dailyActivity_merged  | Daily activity of 33 users in 31 day period. Tracks total steps, total distance, logged activities (in distance), intensities in minutes and distance, and calories
dailyCalories_merged  | Daily calorie burn of 33 users in 31 day period
dailyIntensities_merged | Daily intensities of 33 users in 31 day period. Tracks intensities in minutes and distance
dailySteps_merged | Daily steps of 33 users in 31 day period
heartrate_seconds_merged | Heartrate monitor of 7 users in every second in 31 day period
hourlyCalories_merged | Hourly calorie burn of 33 users in 31 day period
hourlyIntensities_merged | Hourly intensity and average intensity of 33 users in 31 day period
hourlySteps_merged | Hourly steps of 33 users in 31 day period
minuteCaloriesNarrow_merged	| Minute recording of calories burn of 33 users in 31 day period (single row format)
minuteCaloriesWide_merged |  Minute recording of calories burn of 33 users in 31 day period (single column format) 
minuteIntensitiesNarrow_merged | Minute recording of intensities of 33 users in 31 day period (single row format)
minuteIntensitiesWide_merged | Minute recording of intensities of 33 users in 31 day period (single column format)
minuteMETsNarrow_merged | Minute recording of Metabolic equivalent (MET) of 27 users in 31 day period (single row format)
minuteSleep_merged | Minute recording of sleep logs of 24 users over 31 days. Value column consist of integers 1, 2, and 3, which are unknown values.
minuteStepsNarrow_merged	| Minute recording of steps of 33 users in 31 day period (single row format)
minuteStepsWide_merged | Minute recording of steps of 33 users in 31 day period (single column format)
sleepDay_merged | Sleep log of 24 users in 31 day period. Tracks number of sleep in a day (nap or sleep), total minutes asleep, and total time in bed.
weightLogInfo_merged | Weight log (pounds and kilograms) of 8 users in 31 day period. Body fat percentage and BMI output.
 
# Process Phase
I will be utilizing Microsoft Excel and Google BigQuery to ensure the dataset is clean, free from errors, and ready for analysis.

My analysis will focus on the following datasets:
- dailyActivity_merged (renamed to dailyActivity from herein)
- dailySteps_merged (renamed to dailySteps from herein)
- sleepDay_merged (renamed to sleepDay from herein)

## Cleaning Process
1. To determine the data integrity of the datasets, I first determined 


